docs(CIP): Add simple extension to CIP-13 (#6)
input-output-hk/catalyst-CIPs: CIP-XXXX/README.md

---
CIP:
  ?
Title: Cardano URIs - CIP-0019 Address Representation
Category: Wallets
Status: Proposed
Authors:
  - Steven Johnson <steven.johnson@iohk.io>
Implementors: [ ]
Discussions:
  - https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/?
Created: 2024-08-23
License: CC-BY-4.0
---

## Abstract

This CIP proposes an extension to [CIP-13] to allow easy and unambiguous encoding of
[CIP-0019]/[CIP-0105] Addresses into URL's.

## Motivation: why is this CIP necessary?

> [CIP-0013] defines encoding for payment addresses, however [CIP-0019] and [CIP-0105] define
> numerous other address types.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[CIP-0013] defines encoding for payment addresses and stake pool, however [CIP-0019]
and [CIP-0105] define numerous other address types.
```

> These addresses cannot currently be encoded into URLs unambiguously.
> This extension proposes a simple and forward compatible method of encoding such addresses into the URL scheme defined by [CIP-0013].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These addresses cannot currently be encoded into URIs unambiguously.
This extension proposes a simple and forward compatible method of encoding such addresses into the URI scheme defined by [CIP-0013].
```

> [x509] certificates can contain name or alternative name information related to either the issuer of

Reviewer: Maybe add c509 certificates too

Author: I just refer to x509 in the general sense.  c509 just being a different way to encode the cert.

the certificate or its subject.
It is desirable to distinguish an Issuer or Subject of a certificate by one or more on-chain keys.
This, for example, can facilitate the ability to link off-chain actions authorized with a x509 certificate,
with an on-chain identity.

Currently, there is no standard way to embed a Cardano address, such as a stake address,
or a dRep address as distinguishing name within a [x509] certificate.

> However, One of the defined names that can be associated with an Issuer or Subject of a certificate is a URI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A URI is one of the possible names that can be associated with the Issuer or Subject of a certificate.
This URI can be referenced in the alternative name for both the Issuer and Subject of a certificate
by using the uniformResourceIdentifier in the general name.
```

Might be clearer to the reader on where will this URI will be used.
